UPLOADED 5.5.2025

Wind Opposition Code Book: 

CODE - Economy: 
Discusses the impacts the windmills will have on the economy. This includes discussion about taxes, financial reasons, tourism, rising/falling energy costs affecting families etc. 
Note: discussions of property value alone do not count for the economy code 
Examples: 
"The fact is our county and our schools need consistent and predictable revenue that won't raise property taxes and doesn't require taxpayer dollars - this wind farm will do that." 
“After the meeting, Bob Young said he supported the wind farm idea for financial reasons."
 "The Pleasant Ridge Wind Energy Project would create hundreds of construction and permanent jobs in Livingston County and generate millions of dollars annually in local tax revenue — critical at this time for local schools. None of this will be realized because of the decision."
We don't believe that it is going to create as many jobs as they are saying. Their officials said it would be around 13 or so once the wind farm is on-line. People are very skeptical of Invenergy and this wind farm has caused a lot of negativity in our county. It's been a long process, but hopefully on Thursday, we will have a decision, one way or the other’
Wind Watch members question whether the project would benefit New Hampshire’s renewable energy needs, and say any financial benefits offered to the three towns would be outweighed by the negative effects of the towers: 
It also runs counter to the Hawaii Tourism Authority's goal of improving the visitor experience, while maintaining the quality of life for residents. It is located much too close to homes and schools within the community.




CODE - Future and/or Character of the Community: 
Discusses the concern the windmills would have on the community and what it means for the future 
Note: Can overlap with scenic beauty but only when scenic beauty and aesthetics are explicitly mentioned. 
Examples: 
“While there are some locals whose homes would actually be in the shadow of these towers and who fear for their own quality of life - if not sanity - the bigger issues are how these projects would be managed into the future and whether they set the stage for additional wind farms.” 
"Prairie Acres residents worry about the traffic coming through their neighborhood, and those additional employees will add to it. "






CODE- Public  Health: 
Discusses the impacts the turbines can have on their health, this includes discussing its dangers and how it relates to the public, light as a disturbance, and pollution. 
Direct or indirect impact on somebody’s health (e.g. I can’t sleep because of XYZ).
Note: This will often overlap with noise when noise is discussed in terms of impacts on human health and well-being (e.g ability to sleep). 
Note: Will overlap with economy where health impacts have implications to them to perform their work 
Examples: 
One of the major rallying points of resistance to wind farms concerns the noise generated by turbines, and the adverse health effects that they allegedly cause.
Opponents of the wind farms claim that industrial wind farms, such as those in Benton and White counties, are hazardous to public and animal health and depress property values.
"We had two pieces of fiberglass fall within 100 feet of the base. No one was injured in the incident and no other property damages had occurred," Shroll said. "We have done a drone inspection of the damages and conditions that we had to deal with."
"How many other turbines have the same blades on it and will the manufacturer of the blade that failed look into whether or not the other blades are OK?" Tenbusch asked Shroll.
Whether it's the lights, the sounds or other perceived health effects, it's growing clearer that South Dakotans settle into two camps when it comes to wind energy. 



CODE - Infrastructure:  
Discusses how the creation of the wind turbines would destroy roads/infrastructure (or build new roads that might destroy other things such as plants etc.) This can also include altering shipping channels/routes of commerce.

Examples
"I wouldn't want to put one in Lake County," Steele said. "The equipment will pulverize the roads. It takes seven semis to move one crane."





CODE - Legality and Property Rights 
Discuss the legality of the wind turbines. This includes any quotes about zoning, community codes, or property rights. This includes discussion of loss of ability or capacity to act freely on one’s property (see, e.g., quote starting with “Jan Murgittroyd,” below.
Examples: 
“I really want them to follow our local law,” he said. “It’s hard to imagine that this project meets those standards.”
“A lot of our residents didn’t think this project met our town laws,” said Enjem. “I think it was the right thing to do.”
"Another board member, Mike Ingles, also announced which way he planned to vote - though his would be a "no." He noted that his decision was purely from a zoning and coding standpoint. 
"It changes the landscape permanently," Carroll said, adding residents believe the area would be transformed into an electric substation. "I'd really hate to see it happen. ... The thing's a long way from being decided." There also are worries over absentee ownership that would result from land being bought up by out-of-state interests to facilitate the construction. "I think a lot of people have health concerns" and also are disturbed over possible consequences the hardware might have to livestock, Carroll said.
Jan Murgittroyd of Alma, who owns property in Bethany Township, said her ability to do what she wishes with her property will be lost. If someone wanted to build a shopping center, she said by way of an example, the wind turbines make it unlikely.” (Land autonomy)




CODE - Noise: 
Discusses the noise of wind turbine construction or operation.
Generally, this will overlap with public health. This means you can use both codes → except when noise is discussed without any reference to human health or well-being
Examples: 
"Concerns expressed about wind turbines have been the noise they will generate" 
“Chris Walker, an attorney for UNU, said the siting board failed to set a clear standard for how much noise turbines could produce and did not do enough to hold the project accountable to residents before issuing its approval.”
“"In January, they turned on these wind turbines and we all had sleepless nights. We prayed that we'd get used to the noise, but we did not. It got worse," Hartke explained.”
Partisan Parties: 
Direct or indirect references to major party leaders or political parties in support/opposition to wind projects 
Any kind of reference to who/how regarding political parties. 




CODE - Property Value:
Discusses the property value in a negative or positive way. 
If there is only a discussion about Property Values → does not count for the economy code unless other references to economic matters (see “Economy” code).
Examples: 
“A wind farm creates an easement over neighboring nonparticipating properties that impairs the value, or a regulatory taking of private property rights, or uncompensated taking” 
Many qualified, independent appraisers, real estate professionals and the experience of the people living near industrial wind turbines, all agree that living near them devalues their property’s value."


CODE - Scenic Beauty:
Describes that the windmills will destroy the views/beauty of the land or seascape. This includes discussing the aesthetic.
Must refer to specific concerns about aesthetic and beauty, and not vague concerns of quality or character of a place. (See future and/or character of the community code) 
Examples: 
"They are destroying the scenic beauty of the area surrounding the property"
In some cases, the giant windmills that generate the power have been described as eyesores
"He cited concern over the height of the wind generators and the aesthetics of the structures."


CODE - Sustainability and Climate Issues: 
Discusses energy independence and or impacts on climate. This also includes any concern that standard or renewable energy sources might not be sufficient in guaranteeing energy supply.
This also captures the link between wind turbines and reducing carbon emission and emphasizes the concepts of renewable energy 
Discusses the impact of wind farms on sustainable practices and the environment (positively or negatively) 
Includes concerns about reliability (e.g.: wind is unreliable)
Discusses the impact of wind farms on Global Weather Patterns and impacts wind turbines have on the environment 
Examples: 
"These wind energy projects will increase our energy independence and help move the country away from unstable foreign energy supplies," 


“Other remarks Link made were that turbines reduce emissions of carbon dioxide that are produced by power plants using fossil fuels, that Illinois energy comes from coal, nuclear plants and natural gas, and that Illinois' goal is to generate 8 percent of its power from renewable energy sources by 2013 
“Luce said the Midwest is the only part of the United States suited for wind-power production at levels that can make practical contributions to the country’s renewable energy portfolio standards.”
“Look, I like wind power. Generating an equivalent amount of electricity with fossil fuels would cause much worse environmental damage.”  
“If enough wind turbines were constructed to supply a significant proportion of the Earth’s electrical needs (let’s say 50 percent), would this noticeably alter the weather? [...] That’s interesting all by itself; other studies have also found significant local and global weather effects. But potential climate change is only part of the impact of large-scale wind power.” 




CODE - Technological Skepticism/ Optimism 
Discussions of the reliability of technological feasibility of wind turbines 
Examples: 
“In the winter, the wind prevents blackouts because pipelines freeze, some of the coal piles freeze and you can't break up the coal.”


CODE - Threat to Wildlife: 
Discusses a threat to animals or plants. 
Examples 
"their threat to migratory birds"
“Some environmental groups have expressed concerns about the toll the towers take on migrating birds.”
“Other concerns are noise and impact on wildlife. Wind farms in Wyoming have been blamed for killing more than four dozen golden eagles since 2009.







CODE - Tribes: 
Explicitly mentions tribes   

Examples: 
The tribe believes the turbines stand atop ancient burial grounds. They also say the structures violate their religious teachings, which hold the horizon as a sacred meeting place of heaven and earth.
They still worship the horizon in special, sunrise ceremonies. The turbines have ruined those gatherings, they said. 

































General opposition: 
Mentions general discontent and/or anger regarding something related to offshore wind. Does not raise any key issues explicitly. 

Examples: 
 
